Now, we've talked about how to
simulate random numbers from
simple probability solutions.
But the question now is how,
what if we want to assimilate data from a,
from a model.
So for example, like a linear model.
So I've got a fairly
simple linear model here.
It has a single predictor, x and
it's going to have random noise, what I
call epsilon that, that has a normal
distribution with standard deviation two.
There is, the outcome is going to be
generated by, by, use, using these two
regression coefficients around intercept
beta knot and, and a slope beta one.
And I've got I'm going to assume
that beta knot is equal to 0.5 and
beta 1 is equal to 2.
So the question is,
how do I simulate from this model
now that I've specified what it is?
So I here, at first I set the seed.
It's always very important
to set that seed.
So I set it to 20.
I generate x the predictor, which is,
has a standard normal distribution.
I generate epsilon,
which is going to have a standard
a normal distribution with mean
zero of standard deviation two.
And then I'm going to add
them all together by,
and after multiplying the regression
coefficients to generate my y.
And so, from the summary here,
you see that y has roughly a mean of 0.68.
And it ha, and
it ranges from about minus 6 to plus 6.
And then I can plot the data
to see what they look like.
And here they are on the next slide.
So this is the plot of
the x that I simulated.
And the y that I simulated
from the linear model.
And you can see that they very clearly
have a linear relationship according that
follows the model that we specify
So just a slight variation
of the previous example.
What if x is a, instead of x
being a normal random variable,
what if x is a binary random variable, so
member it, maybe it represents gender or
maybe it's some treatment versus
control or something like that.
So here, and it's very simple,
I can generate binary data from the,
using the binomial distribution and
the rbinom function.
So, I set the seed again.
And I generate a 100 binomial
random variables and
these are going to have these,
this, this if from, this comes from
the binomial distribution which is
n equals to 1 and p equals to half.
So, the probability of one
is going to be equal to 0.5.
So I generate a hundred of those.
And then I generate my
normal random variables.
My normal error term which is going to
be mean zero and standard deviation two.
And then I add them all together
which should produce my y.
So now I look at the summary of y.
I see the mean is about 1.4, and the range
is about from minus 3 to six or seven.
So when I, now when I plot the data,
of course they'll look very different,
because the x variable is binary.
But the y variable is still continuous,
it's normal.
So here you can see that there's,
there appears to be a pretty clear,
again, linear trend when, between going
from x equals to 0 and x equals to 1.
Now suppose you want to simulate from
a slightly more complicated model
a generalized linear model perhaps
with a Poisson distribution.
And so, for example, you might want to
simulate some outcome data that are,
that count variables,
instead of continuous variable.
So we have to use a slightly
more complicated approach, to do
this in particular, because the error
distribution is not going to be normal.
It's going to be a a Poisson distribution.
And so, let's assume that the outcome y
has a Poisson distribution with mean mu.
And that the log of mu follows a linear
model with a intercept beta knot and
a slope beta one.
So x is going to be one of our predictors.
So let's assume that beta knot is 0.5.
And beta one is 0.3.
So how do we simulate from this
model to get our Poisson on data?
So so we need to use
the rpois function for this.
And so we first set the seed as always,
and we generate our predictor variable, x.
Which is going to have
a standard normal distribution.
Then we're going to simulate, generate
our lin, linear predictor log of mu.
Which is just adding the slope and
this, the intercept and
the slope coefficient times x.
So that's the log of our linear predictor.
But when we, but
in order to get the mean for
our Poisson random variable,
we need to exponentiate that.
So we, we simulate 100 of these Poisson
random variables using the rpois function,
and we give it the ex,
the exponential of our log mean.
So when we summarize this,
you'll see that the mean is about 1.5 and
our range is between zero and six.
When I plot this data, you'll see
that they look like Poisson data, and
that there's clearly a linear
relationship between x and
y, as x increases, the count for
y generally gets larger.
But the data are still
count variables here.